labnote for week 13

====================================

making server our own

something you can do you can operate...

7;30)

every assignment due 13th of December (Saturday)

final project - minimal viable tutorial - put it in common repository
(Dec 13)

13:50) what is server? storage, special computer, serves information in
real time,

server is important, they run government, run movies, stock, etc. it's
important tool not for clients... what we're doing is running our server
it's beefier computer and do the request

instead of having your own music, you're serving music for yourself you
can be your own stock trader some computer has to be there, and that's
what server is for

26:37) we're not buying new laptop, we're creating virtual server in the
cloud let me give you the course on cloud

27:18) \*\*drawing: the cloud we're using is AWS, the Amazon that has
the biggest one Microsoft too, and there are others it virtualizes the
actual server you need a box with CPU, there has to be some processing
power, there has to be operating system to install software you run your
website... you have to buy a new server, invest a lot of box Amazon has
tiny server you can buy, if tomorrow, if you have a lot of traffic, it
will become elastic you only pay for larger server, it would shrink back
to smaller size

the server has forts coming in and coming out forts, we're not going to
far imagine there's a little pipe coming in or not 8080, there's pipe
coming into the machine, it's listening to that fort it's requesting ...
it serves html pages or some other one CPU... what is the server?
storage? what do you need? storage if you want to open the company,
you're going to start... you need a little bit of harddrive the
harddrive would be... it's no longer abstract thing, it's server, there
thing called S3 and EBS different type of storage... there's another
thing called GLCIER it's super cheap, but if you want something out of
it, it takes 15 minutes it's very inefficient, but good for backups if
you run the stock exchange, it's constantly run backups eventually you
.. you put there

54:50) http://aws.amazon.com/ko/

EC2 you do it by region Limits - uses (never go above etc.) click
"instances" these are my server, three (research, ccontrol,
presentation) "spot reuqest" "reserved instances" don't worry about it

click on "instances" to register for new server t2 premium step 3;
configure instance details

configure instance

add leave it at that tag isntance my-first-server create a new key pair
key pair name - test
