week 8 - oct. 29 labnotes

we have a lot of thing to do to explain how the computer works the
problem is that that's separate force, really and so, what i did...which
makes sense, explain others how computers work even though ... early
pioneer ... there is CPU and there's... I don't get it... i think i have
a way to ... really... it should philosophical foundation of computing
the... Turing, Shannon, N... I want to give you the longer history to
help you understand more broadly and intuitive way in Wed. workshop,
I'll give you... then if we have time, i'll show you ...

one of the key problems, key mistes in western thought, dialectics in
materialism and idealism hardware and software, the immediate connection
you have Plato, saying 'the world in front of you is the pale shadow of
the real world out there" and it's the reflection of the shadow the
desk, table, etc., there are imperfect table, the thingyness the err
form, that for Plato is the real thing and there's ... ...?? materiality
if you want to study table, study table, no abstract this conversation
goes on and on over centuries, forces between Hegel and Marx, it's
always like that you see, we're reading "There is no software", and
we'll read "there's no hardware" it's the same kind of ... to what
extent when we're thinking about computer program, there's material
substratum people who believe that is ... the forms are what's important
that's where we are going with this broadly 6:01) as usual in this
class... those decisions, those philosophical decisions on issues like
software and hardware... materiali and idealism., it has political it's
not just... something at stake here that there is '-ism' let me wrii
7:00) **writing on board: LULL - LEIBUIZ - BOOLE ** (RUSSEL) - SHANNON -
TURING

8:00) **internet search: Ramon Lull let's start in 14th century, with
this guy Ramon Llull he's a philosopher, mystic and religious activist
and kinda forgotten in history in some way, but very improtant one his
big idea is to think about universal language, universal truth about God
when you see things like that **the picx, you feel mysticism .. ... ...
he came up with bunch of these and then, here's beautiful part... we
never thought about God this way... not before said out loud i came with
proposition, truth about God we're already said God is good, but we
never said...? some of these things are not discovered this philosophy
is predicated... universal language is always true he come up with
conventory(?) wheel.. you rotate them and discover in conventory way you
can get convenitory ... all people pick up this idea German poetry pick
up... you come up with poem, the initial assumption ... this idea....
it's holy idea in some way the dream... i want to see how appealing it
is, for religious thinkers and scientist the reduced vocabulary, you
produce beautiful things 16:42) So you got universal language here,
Leibniz... ... all thee stuffs, you guys talk vernacular talk, it's too
messy only this ...hugely reduced this vocaburlary we'll... really the
birth of logic Leibniz picks it up, and he is also one of... writes
pieces on binary digits you can get ... you can get think of logics in
terms of binary digits these are kind of important milestone.. the birth
of universal logic, binary representation that is Leibniz Boole, ...
21:58) \*\*writing on board: AND OR NOT

so for example, here's inverter \*\*drawings on board (look at pics)

... ... 23:40) **internet:
www.ee.surre.ac.uk/Projects/CAL/digital-logic/gatesfunc/index.html
28:00) **writing on board: (coulnd't see it clearly, see the pix) .. . .
. . . . 43:35) this equivalent of universal logic in physical structure
out there let's talk about what universal machine is Turing writes this
paper, right? and if you have that paper, get it out \*44:07) he said in
computable number p. 231 he ends up in

. . . . 57:20) if it not's .. what's interesting and what other people
developed... beause of this weird state, it can imitate any other
machine, any other Turing machine think about that for a sec ...
technically, if your computer from the 50s, complete Turing machine, it
can do what modern computer can do, modern storage... millions of years
but it could technically do it modern computers are much complicated
version of Turing machine
