labnotes - week 11 (nov. 19)

we're not getting into networking there are various ways we can take
what's at stake i... I'll draw out... what are information network? what
do they look like? there's an argument I want to make, .. tangential
internet is not decentralized it's something one of those ideas you hear
all the time to what internet is decentralized?

we'll get basics of network theory in the end, we'll understand these
diagrams how to read these dialogues critically otherwise, we'll talk
about texts

8:25) \*\*drawing on chalkboard: network

09;35) \*\*drawing on board: unified timeline

\*\*\*github... note...

12:00) what is the text? I'll try to reconfigure what the text is so on
some level, the text is some form of structure there is some structure
and that structure usually,... when you read Deleuze, when you talk
about tree, how comprehensible was this paper to you? what did you get
out of? it's interesting paper, we'll try to get it so far I know,
rhizome is good, tree is bad they write in rhizomatic way, it's not
linear the writing lacks that structure... it's all like that, it's sane
... no logical unity, you become text...

14:30) \*\*drawing: rhizome this sort of thing that they're trying to
imagine, right? they're saying... language works like that or society
works like that

they believe that tree like structure... 16:13) \*\*darwing: tree
diagram

20:10) \*\*drawing: table i don't know tabular data for recording
keeping is this a thing? that's a structuring system, it seems to occupy
ontological... occupy a strange place in our lives

22:10) \*\*drawking

the shape is still physical thing for Deleuze, they see control the root
like structure... the central .. they see control, so they get irid..
these looks like roots, subterranean

the internet is decentralized...

30:15) \*\*drawing: 3D

what they were looking for is intertextual

36:23) third layer... there 's this right here \*\*first drawing of
network

37:35) that movement is often restricted,... censorship

each one of these are article \*\*40:25) pictures on the computer

40:40) \*\*drawing: A--B

the representation of our class, the nods of people when do you draw the
edge...

what do size represent?

50:25) \*\*drawing: articles

layout is heavily ...quantitative, real structure then this layout is
heavily interpreted i wouldn't call it a model, because it's already
interpreted

1:01:24)
stateofthediscipline.acla.org/sites/default/files/images/figure5.jpg

1:09:50) \*\*drawing of internet
