labnote for week 12

====================================

minimally viable citizen

md/plain text FS terminal --\> fund terminal --\> sed networking
biblio --otero biblex latex + typesseed git/version control file
permission -

13:200) github... remote server

you're going to conflict, because no editing structure each structure
could delete everything in version control... you're in this model, your
own repository

so, what branching is... you have one remote... submitting code to same
repository you have primary remote and you have user ... imagine this as
your general editor for your journal you have user 1, what they do is
they make a clone, this is 'branch', you branch it it makes a exact copy
of your primary remote this responds to ... "I'm going to create
repository minimally viable citizen" that reply know you're writing main
source repository then you're making changes, it's own your side then
you request "pull request"

this model is important, because peer-production requires little chunks
you're signing up for little piecces but what enables this ... this way
of conceptual model (not just gibhub) of peer production... each test is
modular, ease up your work into larger

29;00??) centralized computing is nice, you can back your files
centralized system is easy to control and monitor, easy to surveil then
you see the rise of computer, everybody has the machine at home you
write something and give it to a grandma, you put it in floppy disk
everybody has their own thing, decentralized thing you monitor what goes
on there, no spyware it's all yours and protected and then, in advent of
Internet, all of these are connected and we're becoming centralized,
super computer the 'cloud' computing what is it? it's some giant
comptuer that belongs to amazon and you log in and out you're log in the
remote server, it update interface for everybody, that's the trade-off

it first asks you the log-in account they have some kind of user control
your phone... it has edit multiple user you share computer with your
brother and sister users are baked into your computer let's see how it
works

you start getting messages like

cd /

you're inn root directory i'm going to

touch test

it comes with error

ls -l

cd \~ --\> go home

the whole point of tutorial is... first of all, here are file names...
these are all the files of music, etc.

this is the size...

for every user, there's group name for user you could do id for example,

id denten id user id andylee0427

RWX-RWX-RWX u - g - w

let's say i want to git my group the 'right' to permission

touch test.txt

man chmod chmod g+w test.txt

ls -l test.txt

man chmod chmod u-w test.txt

pwd --\> in direcoty...all files belong to you

cd / ls -l then you do 'sudo' sudo then touch test.txt

58:50)

54:24) let's do 'pull' at github
